---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2015-10-15T21:25:35.369Z'
dateModified: '2015-10-15T21:25:15.649Z'
title: ''
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2015-10-15-8479cddd-cf4c-4c53-98af-c49186c8aae8.md
published: true
url: 8479cddd-cf4c-4c53-98af-c49186c8aae8/index.html
_type: Article

---
My current personal focus is on the zero marginal cost production and distribution of food and how we can utilize the new paradigm to change the way we develop and run producing organizations. The first interest is purely practical.If the existing capitalist system can starve us out, then the revolution is over before its begun. Reliance on 2nd generation food tech while building a 3rd generation economy will not sustain itself in the long run. We need systems that can sustainably create and distribute zero marginal cost basics of survival (water, food, energy, shelter, clothing and communication) without dependence on the unsustainable, fossil fuel driven, centralized systems. Otherwise, the collaborative commons becomes an interesting art project on top of a civilization which will eventually collapse and take everything down with it. Food is the basis of civilization, of society and culture.Birthing new principles for the organization of civilization will require the development of new ways of growing, distributing and consuming food.

Some facts that have convinced me this is a core area:

1. Population is expected to peak at 9 Billion people sometime around 2050\. Most of the population growth is in countries with existing food insecurity.
2. Feeding 9B people will require us to increase food production by at least 60% to provide an adequate number of calories.
3. Costs of key inputs (fertilizer, land, water) are expected to continue to rise in real terms over the next 50 years.
4. Food insecurity creates political and social insecurity, which will make the creation of a collaborative commons unlikely. Hungry people aren't as willing to share.
5. Food insecurity creates short term focus which will increase environmental damage and make the long term sustainability of civilization less likely.

I plan to focus on innovations in closed loop food production systems and documenting what I learn during my apprenticeship at a small hydroponic farm.

The second interest follows from the first: If we aim to create a zero marginal cost society, we must reduce human labor. ,We must also reduce the labor required to organize and direct the systems we use to create the material conditions of civilization.Hierarchical organizations are susceptible to capture from those seeking to capture rents from the organization.How to we leverage new capabilities in collaboration, cooperation and machine intelligence to create systems of organization that do not require hierarchical organization?